US President Joe Biden has delivered a
televised speech following his visit to
Israel earlier this week he used the
address to draw a link between the
conflict in Ukraine and Israel and urged
Congress to do more to deliver Aid to
both Nations let's have a listen to what
President Biden has been saying you know
history has taught us that when
terrorists don't pay a price for their
Terror when dictators don't pay a price
for their aggression they cause more
chaos and death and more destruction
they keep going and the cost and the
threats to America and the world keep
Rising if we walk away from Ukraine if
we turn our backs on Israel it's just
not worth it that's why tomorrow I'm
going to send to Congress an urgent
budget request to fund America's
national security needs to support our
critical Partners including Israel and
Ukraine let's talk to our chief
International correspondent Le duat now
who is in Israel fors in southern Israel
wel welcome to you Le what's your
assessment of Joe Biden's televised
address we saw him there in Israel just
a couple of days ago now appealing to
Congress for More Money More aid for the
country well in a very divided America
in a very divided Congress uh opinions
are very divided there are some who
don't like uh the way that he is linking
Ukraine and Israel there are some on
both sides of the house who don't want
some much Aid going to Israel there
there before this crisis erupted there
was criticism among leading Republicans
that too much Aid was going to Ukraine
but Joe Biden has tried to take the
moral High Ground you'll remember that
when he first came to office he wanted
to divide the world into Democrats and
autocrats Democratic societies and
authoritarian societies and now he is
building on this message comparing Hamas
to Vladimir Putin and saying that the
United States had a responsibility um as
a democratic country as a as a world
leader that he personally also believes
that America has to take the lead he did
make an effort to say that of course
that the United States of America was
standing right behind Israel he also
spoke about the suffering of the
Palestinians and how Aid needed to get
into Gaza and his concern that this
could spread across the region so he
tried to address many audiences not all
of them will be happy but this is how we
beli in this rather historic live
broadcast from from the from the White
House from the Oval Office the setting
was was important the timing was
important the consequences will be
important yeah Le he also urged Israel
leaders to learn from us mistakes after
the biggest terror attack on their
country 911 and not to rush into
something that could have unintended
consequences as you stand there today on
the southern Israel border waiting to
see what happens whether or not there
will be a ground offensive which is is
expected isn't it by Israeli troops into
Gaza what's your assessment what's
coming out of the Israeli military and
the Israeli government about
that well I think for for today the what
everyone is waiting to see happen today
because it is also dependent on
decisions of the Israeli military and
the Israeli politicians is will that
Rafa Crossing at the border with Egypt
the only way in and out of Gaza where
more than 100 lores packed with food and
uh food and water in medicine have been
waiting and waiting for days to get in
we hear that Egyptians are gathering on
that side of the Border waiting there
protesting until that desperately needed
Aid gets in not only the eyes of the
world on that Crossing even the world's
top Diplomat Antonio goeres the
Secretary General is heading down to the
Rafa Crossing to be seen to be
emphasizing just how crucial it is that
a gets into Gaza not just those 20
trucks that President Joe Biden said he
had secured an agreement for it seemed
to be a kind of a test case to ensure it
could be done safely to ensure it didn't
get diverted to Hamas but we are still
waiting the gazans are still waiting all
of the aid agencies are still waiting to
see whether that Crossing opens today
and right now the crossing itself is
open but it's not open to the aid trucks
there'll be a lot of of waiting to see
whether this this firstep takes place
absolutely and we'll of course be
updating our viewers should there be any
developments at that ruffer Crossing
least for now thank you